201060906.md, before:

Sept. 9th, 2016
===============

**Computer Science 302 Introduction to Programming**, Jim Williams, PhD.

Research in Computer Science Education, introduction to programming (how to teach it), 8 years in study.

What is computer science?
-------------------------

The study of the sciences behind computing/computation, of how computers works (as in its processing routine, architectures, etc.).

- Designing and building new things.
- **Not** use of software.
- The "machine", how to create a better one or to better apply in its use.

What is programming?
--------------------

The process of creating a series of instructions to a computer, arranged in terms of logic and function.

*"Put idea into forms that computer understands what to do with."*

Algorithm, core idea of computer sciences. Steps to a problem, with programming language to instruct a computer to do so.

CS Core Principles
------------------

**Algorithms:**
A step-by-step set of operations to be executed.

**Abstraction:**
A technique fo rmanaging complexity.

Abstraction can envolve in "creating tools and forgetting about the details", the idea of function(al) programming. Use of API is key to abstraction.

On learning CS
--------------

**Declarative knowledge:**
Demonstration and explanation of the "how-to".

Declarative knowledge allows the possibility in first attempts and the understanding of a concept (the ability to learning from others, or via critiquing). However, this is not the stage where a skill is mastered.

- The purpose of the lectures and zyBook are for declarative knowledge.
- Depends more on the application of knowledge (in creation or audition).

**Practice is key.**


Syllabus
--------

View it [here](https://cs302-www.cs.wisc.edu/wp/syllabus-3/).

### When are participation activites due?

Participation activities are due by **Monday 8:00 A.M**. at the beginning of the week of topic instruction.

### What percent of Chanllenge Activities are required for full credit? When are they due?

Challenge activities must be completed to **80%** for full credits (not mentioned); Due by the **following Monday** of the topic instructed.

### Who are the TAs and LAs for your lab?

### Can you work with a partner in Programs?

During each lab you will be assigned different partners to develop Java programs focusing on the weekly topics.

For some you can (some labs require lab partners).

### When is Exam 1 and what does it cover?

October 13th, 2016. (Evening)

Alternative testing time at 7-9 P.M. on exam day.

### What are 5 ways of getting help outside of lecture and lab?

- E-mail TAs and LAs, even the professors;
- Office hours;
- Piazza;
- Classmates;
- TAs and LAs, in person;

People I met
------------

Commit message:

notes: simple declaration and assignment

201060906.md, after:

Sept. 9th, 2016
===============

**Computer Science 302 Introduction to Programming**, Jim Williams, PhD.

Research in Computer Science Education, introduction to programming (how to teach it), 8 years in study.

What is computer science?
-------------------------

The study of the sciences behind computing/computation, of how computers works (as in its processing routine, architectures, etc.).

- Designing and building new things.
- **Not** use of software.
- The "machine", how to create a better one or to better apply in its use.

What is programming?
--------------------

The process of creating a series of instructions to a computer, arranged in terms of logic and function.

*"Put idea into forms that computer understands what to do with."*

Algorithm, core idea of computer sciences. Steps to a problem, with programming language to instruct a computer to do so.

CS Core Principles
------------------

**Algorithms:**
A step-by-step set of operations to be executed.

**Abstraction:**
A technique fo rmanaging complexity.

Abstraction can envolve in "creating tools and forgetting about the details", the idea of function(al) programming. Use of API is key to abstraction.

On learning CS
--------------

**Declarative knowledge:**
Demonstration and explanation of the "how-to".

Declarative knowledge allows the possibility in first attempts and the understanding of a concept (the ability to learning from others, or via critiquing). However, this is not the stage where a skill is mastered.

- The purpose of the lectures and zyBook are for declarative knowledge.
- Depends more on the application of knowledge (in creation or audition).

**Practice is key.**


Syllabus
--------

View it [here](https://cs302-www.cs.wisc.edu/wp/syllabus-3/).

### When are participation activites due?

Participation activities are due by **Monday 8:00 A.M**. at the beginning of the week of topic instruction.

### What percent of Chanllenge Activities are required for full credit? When are they due?

Challenge activities must be completed to **80%** for full credits (not mentioned); Due by the **following Monday** of the topic instructed.

### Who are the TAs and LAs for your lab?

### Can you work with a partner in Programs?

During each lab you will be assigned different partners to develop Java programs focusing on the weekly topics.

For some you can (some labs require lab partners).

### When is Exam 1 and what does it cover?

October 13th, 2016. (Evening)

Alternative testing time at 7-9 P.M. on exam day.

### What are 5 ways of getting help outside of lecture and lab?

- E-mail TAs and LAs, even the professors;
- Office hours;
- Piazza;
- Classmates;
- TAs and LAs, in person;

Some introduction
-----------------

#### Integer declaration:

```java
int i // Declaring variable i into memory as integer.
int j // Declaring variable j into memory as integer.
```

`i` and `j` are both memory locations.

####  Value assignment:

```java
i = 5; // Assign value of variable i as 5.
j = 7; // Assign value of variable j as 7.
```

Note: Left and right matters here, flipping variable and values may result in compiler errors.

```java
j = i; // Assign value of i onto j, replacing any assignment for j.
```

People I met
------------
